Bash session (Thursday 1 and 2: LI - Leanne)Lead instructor: LeannePositives: -Lots of good commands -can combine commands into one-May helpers, liked post-it note method-Remembering how much can be done just with command line-Great atmosphere-Fun refresher-Some things can be done quicker outside R-Not everything was on the webpage e.g. data by email.-Good intro on how to use unix commands-Piping!-Reminder of commands-Don’t use rm * !!-Learning how to process files-Commands in Git bash shell-Confidence gained in programming outside R- >> : Needed this command.- <  Didn’t know this - All good, no complaints-Discovery of unix commands in windows-All the commands learned. Pipe as the thing that comes to head-Great intro to terminal commands-Commands useful to know-Like the root system-Piping instead of routing output to files-Good recap of unix-Never type rm –r /-Concepts well explained-Rhythm is fine for beginners at least-Using a different approach to access and modify files-Renaming and organising files was an excellent ‘take home’-Good introduction to the program. Clear instructor. -Huge take home: Don’t ever type ‘rm –r /’-Notes and exercises look useful for future reference.-Be careful with ‘rm’-Course prep material was very comprehensive-Pipes are a good ‘take-home’-Redirect output to files.-Lots of unix commands, good intro.-Rapid file management-Logical stuff-Huge take home: Programming improving.-Take home: Always double-check commands-Meaning of ../-New commands. Have an idea how to use them-Very good grounding in Unix this morningNegatives:-slow on easy stuff, too fast on complex stuff-reinforce what’s been done before moving on-sometimes a bit fast. I was writing and thinking and watching at the same time; not easy if not familiar. Normally catch up by looking at the screen but command lines had gone by then-Need to think where to apply lesson (e.g. real life examples)-Learn how to use ‘find’-A bit slow. Not enough ‘big picture’ at the beginning of why we should be using the command line.-Provide list of commands prior. Easier to keep track-Also a bit confusing: jumps around.-Classroom squashed.-Not sure where my ‘Desktop’ is in relation to C: drive.-Few introductory comments about why learn command prompt, particularly for subsequent GitHub interface-Commands might be a bit restrictive-Example data directory structure too complex. Challenging: Scripting commands as questions: ‘What does ‘x’ do?’ is less satisfactory when too many answers like ‘grep’ come up. Confusing.-Maybe after the questions are answered – do the actual example to see the solution output.-Bit too slow-Started a bit slow-A little slow but I have used linux before.-Explain clearly when it is a theoretical exercise (thought exercise) and when it is a practical one (e.g. typing into your terminal)-Bit slow for non-beginners (I’m a beginner so fine with me)-Didn’t quite understand why the cp exercise worked why it did (but will practice)-It felt a bit fast at the beginning  but got better later. I think it could be an issue if someone is very unfamiliar with this type of programming-The counting lines part was a bit confusing.-Unix command teaching  was too slow (I already know unix)-More time to explain more advanced command line file management.-Directory navigation (getting there though)-Some confusion with command users ‘>’ if without ‘>’  for example. -Sometimes too fast-Not take home: What’s ? for ? All this ?-Beginning too slow with bash info-More practice-More real-world examplesBash (Thursday 3; LI – Leanne ) and R Part 1 (Thursday 4; LI - Fatima). The feedback covers both:Positive:-Unix makes sense, all fine-R really useful straight approach. Useful to have the opportunity to ask questions to human beings.-Good to use unix shell again after having to move to windows.-Learned how to use functions!-Showing what commands in R are for in bash (should have done that earlier)-Unix second session: good to learn loops and scripts-Something new: R not used that often.-Good level of calculations for me (as a beginner).-Basics in R studio-Very useful lesson on bash loops and shell-Clear lessons and examples-The afternoon bash session was very interesting-Notes provide a good R introduction.Negative:-A bit slow, especially R session (but teacher was good)-R session not really applicable to me as I use R (write packages for CRAW)-The beginning of the R session was too fast and then too slow-Functions/loops in R was too fast. I thought learning this was an important aspect of the course.-Extremely basic (but I am an R user and write packages)-Mention lessons online (Unix and R)-Answers to exercises would be good (Unix)-R session mystifying. No engagement with beginners so I’d have been better off reading a tutorial-Too basic for current knowledge level-Too short, maybe more detail will help-Function part could be a little bit more structured (explain better the basic R coding we are using, e.g. read.csv)-Delivery was too slow. Can speed up.-Don’t run code that throws error unless you know what caused the error.-Probably too basic. Still useful though.-R session slow because familiar with R. So perhaps could skip for some audiences.-Too fast. Listing of R commands on whiteboard would have been helpful.-No time for getting help.-Not explained as clear as the morning. Jumped though things without explaining that you were (?)/ Not great for holding attention. Hard to follow.R Part 2 (Friday 1: LI- Fatima)Positive:-Great to learn about Shell/R interfacing-Learned some new commands in R.-Good programming practice and conventions-Very useful to get some sample code-Learning to interact between Rscripts and command line.-Good session-Good overview of function calling another function.-Good learning how to use R in commands line-Very positive learning to call R from command lineNegative:-Some of the explanations used too many technical terms making them impossible to understand.-When giving code, give some comments on the script.-Not so good: Nothing!-Either learn R or learn how to run scripts in bash. Complicated to do both at same time.-Need a bigger picture of why we should use R from the command line instead of an R session-Participants fragmented during R command line I was unsure as to whether I ought to watch instructor or work with codeGit Part 1 (Friday 2: LI: Leanne)Positives:-Clear intro into the Git environment-Really great start with Git, thank you-Git stuff was very helpful-Good intro to Git -Git commit lessons easy to follow. Everyone in room working together-Good intro to git-Good to learn how to configure and use Git from command line-Good overview of creating Git and using-Good to see Git done on local machineNegatives:-Cant think of anything-Not convinced to move from Git Gui.Git Part 1 (Friday 3: LI: Alexander )Positives:Negatives:Git Part 2 (Friday 4: LI: Alexander)  & R Follow up (LI: FatimaPositives:Negatives: