St Andrew’s SWC Workshop

LI = Lead instructor

Bash:
* Thursday 1 (1.5 hours): LI - Leanne
* Thursday 2 (1.5 hours): LI - Leanne 

Post-it feedback: Purple notes (contain positive and negative)

Part of Thursday 3 (0.75 hours) LI- Leanne (Bash overran)

R:
* Thursday 3 (0.5 hours) LI- Fatima
* Thursday 4 (1.5 hours) LI- Fatima

Feedback: Yellow (positive) and Pink (negative)


R:

* Friday 1 (1.5 hours) LI -Fatima
Yellow post-its (contain positive and negative feedback)

Git and Github:

* Friday 2 Up to Git lesson 5 – LI- Leanne
Yellow post-its (contain positive and negative feedback)

* Friday 3 Git lessons 5-8 – LI- Alexander K
Alex and Dave collaborate to show git push and git pull

* Friday 4 Bring your own / Q and A / Tidy up of R – All instructors and helpers

1.0 Reflection from the instructors

1.1 Leanne:

A lot of the feedback directed towards myself commented that I progressed through the lessons too slowly. In some feedback I received, I went too quickly.  I think that because generally I talk too quickly and move through material rapidly at some times in my general university lectureship duties that I overcorrected myself when teaching SWC. The pre-workshop questionnaire revealed that the group had a bimodal distribution of experience and knowledge when it came to bash, Git and R. The group was comprised of absolute beginners (no command line experience) and some advanced users (e.g. one or two software engineers). Normally this split in a group would constitute the workshop branching into ‘advanced’ and ‘beginners’ groups and being taught separately but no other classrooms were available to allow this to happen.

During the teaching sessions, the only material displayed on the projector was my terminal screen on my Mac (and the end of lesson exercises). I also deliberately hesitated to point the learners towards the material online because I wanted them to be focussed on both my terminal output and me. Too many windows open on their own laptops (and on the projector screen) would have probably disturbed concentration, although one or two learners did feed back that they would have preferred to have the windows open on their own machines.

With regards to receiving feedback from learners, I used three approaches:

1) The post-it note scheme on laptops (anyone with a problem displayed a pink note; yellow was ‘Ok, I’m fine with this’)
2) I aimed to present the material slowly and stuck to the script as recommended in a debriefing webinar and after a batch of commands. I made sure everyone had made it to a specific point before moving on.
3) At the end of a batch of lessons I asked for two good and two not so good aspects of the lessons (e.g. commands and teaching style; content)

1.2 Fatima
	<Please write a little here about what you felt about your own contribution to the workshop>

1.3 Overall

1.3.1 Positive – What went well:

1. The feedback demonstrates that a lot of the learners left with new concepts, more efficient ways of doing things or had a good grounding in a completely new piece of software/code. And/or that is acted as a good refresher where learners were above beginner level (e.g. functions in R)
2. Git lessons appear to have been well received. Learners seemed to enjoy the live collaboration demo between David and Alexander K.
3. From an instructor’s point of view, the move to a larger classroom was welcomed. 
4. There was a relaxed atmosphere. Learners were able to use the post-it system to show they had issues and were comfortable enough to engage with the LIs and helpers.
5. Learners liked the commands being written on the white board throughout the lessons.

1.3.2 Negative:

1. There was a mix of complaints that the material was being delivered both too slowly and too quickly (e.g. mostly in the R and Unix sessions). The reasoning for this is likely to be:

a. The pre-workshop questionnaire identified that the users ‘knew’ R, but it didn’t become clear until the workshop exactly how many knew R (expected ~21 participants, there was closer to 30 on Day 1) and to what level. 
b. Due to my slow-ish delivery, the Unix session overran and Fatima was forced to cut some corners in the material (so this may appear to some that the material was delivered too quickly). Those who felt that delivery was too slow in R were most likely to be the advanced users.
c. The lead instructors were recruited under the impression that they would be teaching R, Bash and Git (e.g. that most of the audience were beginners) and stuck to the online material that for around 80% of the audience is ‘old hat’. However, 80% is not ‘everyone’ so the R served the beginners in the audience well. Because of this split of experience in R, it was difficult to achieve a pace suitable for everyone.

> Solution: Maybe increase the level of detail on the questionnaire regarding at what level the participants can operate at on R. 

> Additional thoughts: more heavy use (and reminder of use) of sticky notes would likely help with alerting the instructors to any problems that participants were having. Mopad could also be useful in this respect, allowing participants to add questions anonymously.

2. I think all instructors could have explained some terminology better. E.g. I (Leanne) assumed that all learners knew what their laptop desktop was – one learner pointed out that she thought that I mean ‘put the files in a folder on your ‘Desktop PC’ ’ and had to download files again during the session.

> Solution: Difficult one. Maybe consider a glossary of terms that can be updated in the SWC carpentry?

3. Windows/Mac conflicts. All instructors and demonstrators used Macs, so it left us a little disconnected with some issues windows users encountered. We couldn’t always solve the problems, either.

> Solution: Include in the instructors’ database the preferred operating system of the instructors.

> Additional thoughts: Was there a question on OS in the pre-workshop questionnaire? I don't recall, but if there wasn't there should be.

A separate document lists the feedback received and is transcribed from the post-it notes (handwriting permitting) without any editing. Below summarises the main positive and issues learned from the feedback provided in the post-it notes for all instructors and all sessions.

2.0 Learner requests

1. Answers to exercises placed online (we went through the examples in class and explained the answers). I wonder if an online quiz would be a good idea?
2. More time in classes to work through ‘real life’ examples / provide more real life examples in material.
3. An important point from a participant went as follows: “Good to be able to ask questions to human beings” which supports the current format of in-house, rather than remote classes where the LIs and helpers can interact with the audience. 

